Research software is an essential and critical resource for many academics across Strathclyde. It enables modelling, simulation, data gathering and analysis as well as control of experimental instrumentation. Most research would not be possible without suitable high-quality software. Modern codes involved in conducting, supporting and validating research are vital and complex infrastructure that needs to achieve the same level of rigour and professionalism that the accompanying research does. This must be done through the software lifecycle, from inception and through evolution along the innovation chain.

Despite its importance for academic research, software often fails to meet this requirement. Researchers skills are primarily in advancing the science while their skills as software engineers are less advanced. They may only require small amounts of software development work - say a few months - and hence find it difficult to recruit high quality staff on such short-term contracts. When recruited, unless staff are on permanent positions, they can leave mid project. These problems can have profoundly negative consequences for the impact of the underpinning research. Inferior software standards also limit the possibility to commercialise academic software products. Hence, it is not surprising that this model for the development of research software is increasingly questioned.

Funding bodies began to hold researchers and institutions accountable for the software outputs of research grants. Grant applications that contain a significant amount of software development, but do not have a convincing software engineering and management strategy, are no longer deemed competitive as they do not align with the strategic goals of the funders (see for instance EPSRC's 2018 Software Infrastructure Strategy, https://epsrc.ukri.org/files/research/softwareinfrastructurestrategy2018 and e-Infrastructure Strategy, https://epsrc.ukri.org/files/research/einfrastructurestrategy2018 ). As a leading international technological university, Strathclyde needs excellence in research software engineering to remain competitive.

At Strathclyde, we intend to do something about this by providing university level support for research software engineering. Our first need is to understand the level of research software engineering that is undertaken at Strathclyde. We would therefore highly appreciative if you could help this effort by taking part in a short, anonymous survey for staff and PGR students. It should take 5--10 minutes to complete and your answers are very important, even if you do not use software. As a thank you, participants may enter a prize draw to win one of ten £20 Amazon vouchers.

The survey is accessible following the link

https://strathsci.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_5bzr0Ei5EqS6Szz

and will remain open until the end of the month.

Various researchers were involved in the design of the survey: Neil Ghani, Oliver Henrich, Benjamin Hourahine, Romain Michalec, Fredrik Nordvall-Forsberg, Leighton Pritchard, Daniel Thomas. If you have any questions about the survey or research software engineering, please contact the Strathclyde Research Software Engineers community directly on ***REMOVED***.

Icons by Freepik from Flaticon
